# Summary
The goal is to develop a machine learning model that can identify and localize lung nodules in CT scans. I'll start with a simple design for a simple task; a binary classifier that tells us whether or not a given 2D slice has nodules. Given the relative scarcity of labeled examples -- the LIDC dataset has ~7300 nodules, and only ~2000 of those have contour labels -- I expect the model to perform poorly at first. Over time, however, I expect implementation of the following will improve the model's accuracy:
 - **Image Pre-Processing:** The binary classifier will be trained on raw images. Since a typical CT scan has a lot of non-lung stuff in it -- bones, air, fat, etc. -- an obvious way to make the classifier's job easier would be to remove some of that noise.
 - **Pre-Training:** ML practitioners have found that training a model on an auxiliary task can improve its performance. [The Berkeley Segmentation Dataset](https://www2.eecs.berkeley.edu/Research/Projects/CS/vision/bsds/) is a particularly appealing candidate for pre-training.
 - **Convolutional Neural Networks:** For the first task (binary classification),  a simple softmax regression will (probably) suffice. However, in order to achieve the more ambitious objectives, deep neural networks will be needed. CNNs have proven to be particularly good at [object detection, localization, and segmentation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1703.06870v2.pdf).
 - **More Data:** The current training set is composed entirely of CT scans from the LIDC-IDRI dataset. [The National Lung Screening Trial](https://wiki.cancerimagingarchive.net/display/NLST/National+Lung+Screening+Trial) is a potential source of additional data, but there are restrictions around how those scans are accessed and used, and they're also not as conveniently labeled.
